# Data Science for Earthquake Recovery (IRCS Internship)
Using machine learning techniques for resource allocation and recovery prediction of infrastructure networks after earthquakes.

One of the main challenges in Civil Engineering to address limiting factors that commonly arise in power outages and traffic jams is efficient resource allocation. Restoration sequence for immediate recovery of the infrastructure networks after natural disasters such as earthquakes are both time and safety-critical. While there are (high-fidelity) simulators that introduce optimal restoration strategies for interdependent networks (e.g. urban water, power, gas networked systems), they are slow in producing results and need data-driven complements such as data science techniques to help them with real-time estimation to approximate strategies. Decision makers can use such trained models to find a more efficient solution to resource allocation after contingencies and improve the community resilience.

In this short report I have presented a snippet sample of my internship at Iran Red Crescent Society (IRCS) where I employ machine learning techniques to address some of these questions. Included in this report is a summary of the results of integrating the data collected from IRCS repos in order to train neural networks models to predict restoration strategies and find the most efficient number of required resources based on multiple pre-trained models given the specific damage scenario. Other contributions include finding meaningful realization from the trained models that shed light on some of the restoration dynamics and the role of network interdependecies.
